# MoS2 demo

Author: Xiaoxun Gong (xiaoxun.gong@berkeley.edu) 

In this demo, you will be guided to first generate a set of atomic orbital basis using SIESTA, then perform a PW DFT calculation using Quantum ESPRESSO (QE), use the output to reconstruct the corresponding DFT Hamiltonian under AO basis, diagonalize it, and then compare to the QE band structures.

## System environment

1. Quantum ESPRESSO package version 7+, with compiled `pw.x` and `pw2bgw.x` (this `pw2bgw.x` executable can be compiled alongside `pp.x` with command `make pp`.) Although recommended, QE is not mandatory to run this demo.
2. SIESTA version 5+. SIESTA installation is also recommended but not mandatory.
3. Install the package `HPRO` following the `README.md` in the top directory.
4. The pseudopotential files in this demo are obtained from [Pseudo Dojo](http://www.pseudo-dojo.org/) with type: NC SR (ONCVPSP v0.5), XC: PBE, Accuracy: Standard. The upf format is for QE, and the psml format is for SIESTA.

## 1 Basis set generation

If you don't have SIESTA installation, you can skip this step. All the reference output are contained in the `aobasis_ref` folder. Remove `aobasis` folder and rename `aobasis_ref` folder to `aobasis` in order to proceed to the next step. If you have SIESTA installation:

1. Go to `aobasis` folder. Read the contents of `siesta.fdf`. Then run command `siesta < siesta.fdf > siesta.out`. You can also use `mpirun` if SIESTA is compiled with MPI.
2. After calculation finishes, you can find `Mo.ion` and `S.ion` files. They contain atomic orbital basis generated by SIESTA. These files will be used by HPRO.
3. Note that the basis set generated does not depend on the specific material system on which you do the SIESTA calculation. However it does depend on the pseudopotential used, so please make sure that you are using the same set of pseudopotential as those used in the plane-wave DFT calculation.

## 2 SCF calculation

If you don't have QE installation, you can skip this step. All the reference output are contained in the `scf_ref` folder. Remove `scf` folder and rename `scf_ref` folder to `scf` in order to proceed to the next step. If you have QE installation:

1. Go to `scf` folder. Read the contents of `pw.in`. Then run command `pw.x -in pw.in > pw.out`. You can also use `mpirun` if QE is compiled with MPI.
2. After the scf calculation finishes, run command `pw2bgw.x -in pw2bgw.in > pw2bgw.out`. This step gets `VSC` from QE calculation output, which is the total effective local potential required to build the Hamiltonian.

## 3 Band calculation

If you don't have QE installation, you can skip this step. All the required output are contained in the `bands_ref` folder. Remove `bands` folder, and rename `bands_ref` folder to `bands` in order to proceed to the next step. If you have QE installation:

1. Go to `bands/MoS2.save` folder. Copy `data-file-schema.xml` file from `scf/MoS2.save` folder here. 
2. Stay in the same folder. The `charge-density.hdf5` file in this folder is a soft link from the scf calculated charge density file. However, if your QE is not compiled with HDF5 library, you will need to link by yourself by executing `ln -s ../../scf/MoS2.save/charge-density.dat . ` because the charge density file now has a different name.
3. Go back to `bands` folder. Read the contents of `pw.in`, and run `pw.x -in pw.in > pw.out`.
4. After calculation finishes, go to `bands/MoS2.save` folder and run `python qe_getband.py`. You should have `band.json` in this folder right now.

## 4 Reconstruction

1. Go to `reconstruction` folder. Read the contents of `calc.py`. Then run `python calc.py`. You can also use `mpirun -np xx python calc.py` if you have installed `mpi4py`.
2. You should find all the results in `aohamiltonian` folder.

## 5 Compare bands

1. Go to `reconstruction/aohamiltonian` folder. Run `python diag.py` to diagonalize the Hamiltonian you have obtained. You can also use `mpirun` if `mpi4py` is installed. After the run finishes, a file `eig.dat` will be generated which will store all the eigenvalues at different k points.
2. Run `python plotband.py` in `aohamiltonian` folder. This script will read `band.json` from `bands/MoS2.save/band.json` to plot the blue dots, and read `reconstruction/aohamiltonian/eig.dat` to plot the red lines. They are compared against each other in `band.png` generated in the same folder.
3. You should now get the same plot as Fig. 3b in the manuscript.
